---
layout: post
title: "Books!"
categories: journal books
date: 2021-03-28 21:49:00 -0300
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
<br>
From middle school to high school, I used to read 5-10 books per week. Mainly fantasy, sci fi, and other types of fiction. Stopped around 10th grade when I started being exhausted all the time. I still don't think I'm done being exhausted, but I think I'm in a place to start reading again.  

I had never finished any non-fiction book in its entirety until last fall when I got on meds after an ADHD diagnosis.  
The first non-fiction book I ever read was The Collected Schizophrenias by Esme Weijun Wang.  
<br>
<br>

*Books I have read so far in 2021:*  
- Being Mortal by Atul Gawande  
*(a really beautiful book, i really liked the examining but not judging way that the author recounted things. about end of life care and also death in the usa from the perspective of a doctor)*  
- World of Wonders by Aimee Nezhukumatathil  
*(maddy lent me this when I was running around the apartment looking for something to read on the train. tender book about the author's recollections of her childhood, but with animals, and it's prose that sounds like poetry. if not for the beautiful writing it might have been in the category of asian diaspora memoir that I don't like, but the beautiful writing and the voice and imagery is everything here)*  
  
<br>
*Books I'm currently reading / starting next, in no particular order:*  
- The Lord of the Rings - giving this another try after putting it down so many times as a kid cause j.d. said he did the same thing and it was much better as an adult  
- A Short History of Nearly Everything  
- Why We Sleep  
- Nomadland (watched the movie based on this book with Neo and Maddy yesterday, was a beautiful work)  
- Blood in My Eye  

<br>
*Books I started and didn't finish and don't intend to:*  
- Why Fish Don't Exist (feels like a written down podcast, not my thing, also don't like the author's voice, or anything else about this book)  
- Range Why Generalists Triumph (lots of interesting facts, but not super into the narration style/voice of the author)  
- All About Love (I think gender essentialist is the word to describe this. sad because it was quite hyped up last year)  
<br>
  
Going to try to keep updating this as I get back into reading this year :)  

When I move from here in June, I want to spend a few months remembering what I like to do. I've been saving quite severely for this trip, but I keep forgetting that the whole point of it is to not work for a manageable period of time - I find myself continuously half planning guest spots and other travel tattooing things. Probably will end up doing a few guest spots, but I think I need to set a hard limit for myself as to how many, or else I will just end up working through my entire planned break from working.  
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
Jekyll themes still confuse me and all the blog posts automatically have a time zone offset that I can figure out neither how to correct it nor hide.  
The timezone offset in the timestamp on this post says -0400 and the last post said -0500. I am writing this in brooklyn where it is -0500.  
  
It also doesn't do what I expect it to do when I force date/time in the front matter.  
For example in the front matter on this post the date is set to 2021-03-28 21:49:00 -0400.  
If I change that offset to -0300, the post displays 2021-03-28 20:49:00 -0400. if I change it to -0500, it crashes. I can't change the timezone offset that is actually displayed for some reason.  
*edit* I just noticed on the live version of this site, the timestamp on this blog post says 2021-03-29 00:49:00 +0000. Very boggled.  
Jekyll documentation is very sparse and weird. I can't find proper docs on front matter or liquid anywhere.  