---
layout: post
title: "books 2022"
categories: journal books
date: 2022-01-21 15:09:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
<br>
Been on a pretty intense escapist stretch of binge-reading fanfiction & being glued to my phone, so here's once again an attempt to pivot back to books.  
  
*updated 1/27/22*  
*Books I have read so far in 2022:*  
- The Faggots and Their Friends Between Revolutions  
*(saw this in a bookstore the other day and remembered i saw it on a friend's page at some point. Picked it up last week & read the whole thing in one go till like 3am, it felt eerily like a direct continuation of a conversation I was having with someone on the phone right before starting to read it. I think it's exactly what I needed right then. It is giving me a way to feel hopeful when things are still far away. I think this one is going to stick with me for a long time. Probably going to reread the second half because i got sleepy while finishing it)*  

*Books I'm currently reading:*  
- A Prayer for Owen Meaney  
*(very good but quite dense and I'm losing steam. hoping to pick it back up soon)*  
- A Frog in the Fall, by Linnea Sterte  
*(been debating if I want to wait for the physical copy from the kickstarted to arrive in the spring, but I'm probably just gonna load the pdf on ipad and read it now.)*  
- A Deadly Education  
*(looking forward to starting this one but I haven't been sleeping enough)*  
  
*Books I'd like to Start:*  
- The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle - *I know nothing about this book but someone I follow on twitter who seems to have similar tastes in media to me posted about it.*  
- Detransition, Baby - *this one's a maybe. Seems relevant and everyone says it's good but the blurb is not convincing me that I'd enjoy it.*  
- Wretched of the Earth - *have been meaning to give this another shot ever since i got on adhd meds so I'm going to find a copy and actually do it.*  
- The Fifth Season - *ben recommended this one awhile ago*  
- Anxious People - *i thought i'd like everything by backman but I didn't like britt-marie at all, but i saw this online the other day and thought i'd try it.*  
  
*Books I started and didn't finish and don't intend to:*  
- Half Life by Shelley Jackson - *I really wanted to read this all the way through and understand the crazy circular plot but it was really fucking with my head, way too creepy & psychologically messed up for me to handle at this point, also the twofer felt a bit like a wack allegorical thing though maybe it isn't.*  
  

I think I read somewhere that Madeline Miller is writing another book so I'll be excited when that comes out. Might just go to a library or bookstore and look around later if nothing in my list is feeling compelling.  