---
layout: post
title: "doctors"
categories: journal
date: 2022-01-21 14:05:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
<br>
doctor appointment this morning made me feel very humiliated and small. not that i'm not always small.  
the guy was so pleased that it was making me upset. i thought about it a lot while trying to feel better, like what was going through his mind and why he might have treated me that way. maybe it felt like i was wasting his time. he was very clear that he thought the doctors that told me to get the procedure were wrong. possibly he was offended that i asked to schedule an upper endoscopy, instead of asking his advice on my issue. i really don't know how to be a good patient at this point. i really don't think i did anything to deserve the conversation this morning. if I come with a notebook with the whole thing organized, it's usually too much. if I don't, I'm way too scattered and nothing comes across as a significant issue, or it sounds like i'm rambling and listing every symptom under the sun. i really don't think i did either this morning though. i'm really tired with all of this. i was going to type out everything he said this morning to vent but now i don't even want to think about it.  
  
I have recently been so worried about turning 26 next year, because I will have to do a 180 and figure out getting a w2 job with health insurance before then, with all these health problems. But actually, I don't think that having health insurance has changed things much in all the time I've been trying to figure this out. of course having that access is huge, but at the end of it that access hasn't accomplished much, and i've spent a lot of money too. And I still have no idea what's wrong with me. So maybe that deadline isn't real. It changes how I think about what next, if it isn't.  
I think the rheumatologist and also the doctor at home are the only people I've felt actually took me seriously. And so many things are not paid for by insurance anyways. After the followup, if she doesn't have any thoughts on what else to look at, I'm done. I hate this. I hate this so much. I really fucking hate this. I hate how alone I feel. I hate being in waiting room after waiting room alone, being doubted by doctor after doctor, alone, having to convince myself and others that my health matters or that anything is even wrong. I hate that all of this had made everything I've ever wanted to do feel so far away. I hate that it makes doing all the things I don't want to do feel like the only way forward. I hate that 'my best' is such a small fraction of what barely putting effort used to be. I hate that it's so hard to keep this in the state of 'there is a problem and i will take steps to do something about it', and it always feels either like 'it's totally fine' or 'nothing is okay'. I'm so resentful at my capacity right now, and it feels like things would be alright if I could just make the right mental switch and xiang kai about it. But I don't really believe that anymore. Though obviously I could be more positive about this.  
I hate how it's making me resentful in general. And finding how painful it is that my problem is not anyone else's problem. Maybe that's part of the question from that convo last night, of what differentiates friends v. partners v. family v. whatever. I want that again, and it's painful that I won't find it from where I hoped it would come. When I'm in this mood I resent that I feel like I'm probably going to be the necessary step to someone else being exactly where I want to be, and that it was never going to happen that it would be me. Like maybe some people really don't need that but I doubt it and feel like it's just something that hasn't gotten figured out yet. Though maybe some people never figure it out. But I'm probably doing something wrong if it feels like waiting. Because that means I know what I want and it's not there. This is all kind of bitter and I can&should frame it differently even to myself.  
  
My best cobbled-together, probably-wrong guess for the health stuff at this point is it's stress & environment-related inflammatory stuff of some kind that could/will probably continue developing into something a lot worse down the line unless I can figure out what lifestyle/dietary changes actually work.  