---
layout: post
title: "books 2023"
categories: journal books
date: 2023-05-24 13:40:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
<br>
Wow it's been a year. Moved to philly, was saying that i was going to read so much once i got here, and haven't read much. Thought it was a good time to update this.    
  
*updated 05/25/23*  
*Books I have read so far in 2023:*  
- Dopamine Nation  
*saw this on a thread about adhd, and randomly binge read the whole thing in one night. i remember finding parts of it profound when i read it, but now don't really remember much. it had a lot to say about the writer's experience as a therapist with many different kinds of addictions, and how it all sort comes from the same desire for escape*  
- Uprooted  
*really good, brain candy like fanfiction is to me - perfect amount of 'problematic' horny, and fantasy, and surreal nonsensical solutions*

<br>
*Books I'm currently reading:*  
- Dao De Jing (ursula k le guin version)  
*read a big chunk of it a few months ago when i was really in the thick of it, and it felt like a soft breath propelling me onto a slightly different path in life. it's helped a lot, i feel a bit more ok with disatisfaction and feeling lost these days. i'd like to keep reading bits of it as it feels right*  
- baedan  
*This isn't really a book, but it's book lengthed. Read the first few sections and finding it very interesting. Not sure I agree with pure negativism, but I find myself agreeing that it is the most effective in terms of change in our current situation*
<br>

*Books I'd like to Start:*  
- Wizards of Earthsea - *maddy said it's really good in the same way as the scholomance series*  
  
*Books I started and didn't finish and don't intend to:*  
- too many to count, mostly the pile i got at that book fair