---
layout: post
title: "parents"
categories: journal venting	
date: 2024-04-19 15:51:00
---
<br>
Had an interesting and unexpected long chat with K last night - about family, and how people communicate (or don't) with each other - it being K of course the conversation started at "what do you think of square point of sale hardware"  
I felt really unsettled afterwards, and also this morning waking up. I realized I've never believed that anyone has good parents.  
B was my first friend who really seemed to feel like he had good parents - but then after a few independent years away from home, it turns out it was all buried trauma, and induced-hero worship, and actually his parents were terrible. 
When I met A's parents for the first time, I had an embarrassingly strong reaction to how nice and relaxed they were to be around. But with them, I am aware of A's issues with them. I guess I am uncertain to what extent he might consider them 'good parents'.  
<br>
I'm pretty sure though, most everyone else I have ever been close to has parents that were dogshit to them in one major way or another. Just dozens and dozens of cruel and/or unwell mothers and fathers. So I've always got the impression that there must be almost no one who feels like their parents raised them well.  
K clearly does though. And told me a few examples of unintuitive things that were actually really good parenting that their parents did. And those examples were shockingly mature and thoughtful, in a way that I just don't think my parents are capable of, even now. 
<br>
So I feel really conflicted. I guess I've always found some solace in hearing about other people's parents being worse to them than mine (as awful as that sounds), because that means that mine aren't that bad. If they aren't that bad, then the ways they fucked me up in the head isn't really that big a deal. I don't have to reckon with it. I don't have to feel like there are things that were taken from me, psychologically, before I can even pretend I had a choice in the matter. Then when I tell A about some insane thing they did or said, and he laughs, I can laugh along.  
<br>
Instead of feeling like I want to scream - how can I feel grateful to people that made me feel this way. The more life experience I get, the more I realize all the ways in which I was extremely materially lucky, the more I realize how much I have to be grateful for. But everytime someone says they are grateful for what their parents gave them, and I feel like I should say or feel the same - I cannot emotionally disentangle gratitude for being lucky to be born in a well off family, with the expectation that I be grateful to my parents. It wasn't nothing for my parents to have been as good to me as they were, financially. They had struggles, though not as much as many friends' families. But they could have chosen not to be good to me, they could have not loved me, as fucked up as their love is. In that way, which to them is all that matters - they were good parents to me. But they also had no handle on their own emotions, have never been able to admit that they have traumas or issues at all.  
<br>
It's so hard to admit, even in this journal to myself, because it feels ungrateful, it feels like a denial of my generally fortunate circumstance even though it isn't. Mom and dad really hurt me in a lot of ways. When I went to college, away from home the first time, I was focused a lot on the ways my mom hurt me, because I just didn't spend that much time with dad. But now I know that dad hurt M a lot, and she wasn't that close with mom. They both kind of suck. If the baseline of parents is providing materially what they can relative to what they have, then both K's parents and my parents did that. And after that is what they do as people, as parents. And that matters too. Mom knows this too, because while she talks about lao lao being unnecessarily stingy with her, she talks even more about the ways that she was unfair to her.  
<br>
This isn't so related to the rest of these thoughts, but there was one thing I shared with K while chatting last night that I was surprised at how intense it still felt, to talk about with someone new. I felt a strong physical reaction, I kept shaking - not hard enough that I couldn't hide it, but my teeth kept chattering and I felt shocked that I couldn't suppress or control it. It reminded me that I probably still feel a lot of guilt and shame about it.  
<br>
It was about college - we were chatting about why we each ended up or wanted to be self employed, and it came up when I mentioned how I now see as reckless my decision back then to not take pixorize's offer to instead chaotically find and move into a studio in brooklyn within a few days just to fulfill some appointments. K said, well it doesn't seem that reckless since worse case I'm guessing you probably could have moved back home? and I explained my past confusion over the fact of my massive monetary debt to my family back, and how that really confused my habits and understanding of my financial situation. And K was like, wow yeah that would create trust issues for sure.  
<br>
It just made me realize how long that financial / class confusion stretched back. Around 2010/2011, when I started high school, I remember mom told me - we lost any/all savings we had for your college in the stock market crash. You're going to have to get scholarships/take loans. We don't have any savings anymore. And of course I believed them. I've always felt foolish that I believed them, because of their general spending habits and obviously comfortable life, but why would I not have believed them at 13 years old? They spent my entire childhood lying to me about how much money they had/made - why would I not have ended up extremely confused about what kind of background I come from? They also grew up with not a lot and so lots of their habits make no sense for people that make as much money as they do. Mom told me years later, 'I didn't tell you how much money we have because I knew you would be honest about it if people asked you'.  
<br>
And so that was the assumption I had all through high school - that the bulk of tuition and cost for college was something I'd have to figure out. I planned all of my classes based on the credits I could get at UIUC for them. Later, mom told me that's why she never told me they had college money saved for me. So that I wouldn't be lazy and not try to get scholarships. Which is insane, because I was always a very self motivated kid.  
So then when I was applying to colleges and coming up with plans - I did all this spreadsheeting and planning about going to trade school, and how I could self fund that, or feasibly do it with loans. And then I got into uiuc with so many credits and scholarship that I could finish in 2.5 yrs for like $12k. And I got into ACCD, which cost 240k, but I believed naively with all my heart that I could pay it back because it was something that I'm good at, and the program where I could make the best use of that, and that led to the best paying jobs in the field. I remember being so happy about getting in - as far as I had any dreams for myself as a kid, it was to be a concept artist. I remember calling my mom at work, and her reaction being "Oh great" - in a tone that sounded like she thought it was anything but great.  
<br>
And then I got into MIT, which was the only thing they were happy about. I think they tried their best to give me a choice, but in the end they didn't want to spend money to send me anywhere else. Mom said she wouldn't cosign if I tried to get a loan on my own for accd, and I couldn't get enough federal loans on my own because they made too much money for me to qualify for anywhere near private school tuition (I didn't know this at the time, I just believed her). So that really made my only choice MIT, because my dad was vehemently against uiuc, all that mattered to him was the name and prestige. And I wasn't brave enough to go off on my own to UIUC or LA. It probably would have gone poorly, I was so naive and sheltered at that time. And it never felt like it was really my choice, when we talked about it. But they said that college tuition was a loan from them to me, and I would have to pay it back in full after I graduated. I didn't have a good concept of money back then, because of the sheltered fortunate upbringing, so I said okay. I still didn't really want to go - what wore me down in the end was my dad talking at me for 4 hours one day until I cried and logged into the portal and committed to the school on the spot, just to make the conversation stop. I felt so bad about how bad I felt - it's something I should be grateful for, and here I was being so spoiled that it was worth crying over. And then I went to college.  
<br>
It wasn't until some time around when I graduated that she told me I didn't have to pay it back. Throughout school, she had reminded me occasionally of my standing debt. So of course I spreadsheeted the fuck out of my plans after graduation - I thought, if I could get this kind of tech job, or that kind of job, it'll all be ok. Because I wouldn't be able to live with myself if I didn't pay it back, because I thought it was everything they had, because that's. what. they. told. me. I still reflexively blame myself for not knowing better, for not coming to the correct conclusion from the obvious context. But I believe them because I didn't have a reason not to, and I was too naive to know better.  
Those plans fell apart when I started failing at school, for a variety of reasons. I think I have let go of my guilt for failing at school, because now I no longer feel like those were things I had any control over. But I started failing at school, and couldn't get an internship in a field that would let me pay my debt back in an amount of time that (at 20 years old) felt like left me any time to live the life I actually wanted, afterwards. I saw college, and my projected 8 years of paying back debt (i was naive to think 8 years was enough for 240k), as "a thing I will do in gratitude to my parents, because they raised me, and going to MIT will make them happy and feel like their work paid off". But I had always thought that as soon as my debt was paid, I would do what I always wanted, if I could keep those desires alive that long. I often wished that I had a loan from a bank or the government rather than my parents, because then I wouldn't feel so guilty. I could take my time paying it off. But I believed then, they needed this money back. They were not living as a good a life as they could, because I haven't paid this money back yet.  
So when I felt that wasn't a feasible plan anymore, I starting looking at jobs that I actually had skills for. And that's how I eventually found my way to tattooing - it makes a lot of money, and I can be good at it. Though they were never happy about me becoming a tattoo artist either.  
<br>
As time went on and I was working more and just becoming more of an adult, the debt started to feel heavier, and also more confusing. Towards the end of college, my mom kept saying 'oh you can get a masters if this doesn't work out, I can help pay for that' and when I asked "I thought there's no money left", she said "oh we can refinance the house and take some money out of it", which felt like she was being unrealistic, and overextending her resources. I thought "I should be so grateful, to have parents that are willing to sacrifice so much". But it also didn't make any sense, based on how they lived and acted. But the overwhelming sense of guilt and debt superceded any other thoughts I had about it.  
<br>
When she finally told me that actually they had always planned to pay for my college, the only reason she gave for lying was "so that I wouldn't help pay my future husband's loans". A different time, she told me "actually we did need/expect you to pay it back, but we felt bad because you didn't want to go, and then had such a bad time". And yet another time, she said "we told you you had to pay it back, so that you would know how heavy that debt would have been, so you could be appropriately grateful when you didn't have to pay it back".  
But yeah, now that I type that all out - no wonder I was always so confused about my background, even if it was probably obvious from the outside. I accumulated so much shame for years as well, because I reflexively lived and acted like I was saving money to pay back 240 thousand dollars, thinking my parents had no savings because of me, when the facts of how they supported me in school and the fact that they had 240k to spend in the first place on my tuition was completely incongruous with that. (they told me they borrowed from various relatives) I felt like I spent years being dishonest about class and my background, but I think I had actual reasons for how confused I was. I still can't shake a lot of confusion about what resources I have available to me I have an obligation to make use of, for others. Because those come with emotional tolls that I feel unwilling to take on. But I have the option, which claws at me.  
I never paid them back, because I never ended up making that much money, and also I didn't talk to them much for a few years after various things came to light. At this point I don't think they would accept it from me, and also I have like $2k to my name so they'd be waiting till kingdom come so I guess I just live with the shame at this point until I win the lottery or my stickers go viral. 
<br>
And I guess all this journaling is just one aspect of mom and i's fucked up relationship. there's so much more that i don't want to think about. I look forward to the time that this stuff doesn't feel relevant anymore.  
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
