---
layout: post
title: "almond st"
categories: journal 
date: 2024-05-15 14:24:00
---
maybe one day soon (or maybe in another world), we are all living together in an apartment building on Almond St. Maybe it's called 杏花居. I think you'd have a garden full of things you like to eat, and some flowers too. For the sake of this garden, you have a shouting match with the chipmunks every morning, or maybe with woodchucks or possums if we're in a city.  
<br>
Whenever I bring my little dog over, you say he looks like a rat. You probably feed him too many snacks and he gets fat.  
I come over and do my homework while you paint, or I come over and bike with you to the market. You keep as many birds and cats as you want, because there's enough space that 姥姥 never has to hear them.  
It's possible you strike up a friendship with an old man at the park - maybe you just nod and walk together a bit, and then go your separate ways.  
<br>
Maybe I don't live there all the time, but I come visit often and bring my friends. You say, 'aiya aiya' at how we all have so many tattoos, and act like you don't like any of them even though you think they're alright. I think you would get along with one of my cousins you've never met, and my childhood 闺蜜. My friends oo and ah at your paintings, and you are even gruffer with them because you get embarrassed.  
I'd probably rope some friends into regularly playing majiang with 姥姥, because we both love games - whenever she sweeps us, she'd be the sorest winner but give us all bean popsicles before we walk home. We probably fight a lot other than this.  
<br>
When 淼 is born, you pick her up and then never put her back down. She grows up even more of a crybaby than she was, and spends lots of time with you. You teach her how to cook, and probably also can't bring yourself to eat green and blue muffins when she bakes them, even if they smell good.  
<!-- You end up going back to 潮州 more, because I meet 小洁 at some point and keep in touch, and want her to meet the cutest baby in the world so I make you take me every year even though I don't understand why you don't really want to go.   -->
<br>
<!-- maybe in this world, we have somewhere to go as kids, other than our parents' house. maybe you let us stay with you guys sometimes.   -->
maybe in this world, we have somewhere to go as kids, other than our parents' house. maybe we come stay with you when things are bad.  
maybe in this world, I got to know you more, and when I'm a teenager we don't get along for a bit. but you still let me come over and we draw together in the quiet afternoon, in your study room that gets too bright and warm when the sunlight is coming from the west.  
<br>
I hope this day comes soon. I miss you.  
<br>
<br>
<!-- to my 姥爷, who doesn't remember me anymore  
to the life we never had together, that we never could have had, in this world - - maybe in the next   -->
<!-- maybe this is a story I'd tell him, since he doesn't remember -->
<!-- <a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>   -->
