---
layout: post
title: "descent"
categories: journal prose	
date: 2024-04-14 12:38:00
---
<br>
Earlier today I read some reflections an acquaintance wrote about family they met on a trip last year;  
about the things different people in their family did, that they learned about.  
I felt envious, and was thinking about why - -  
. . .  
On my own recent first trip back to China in almost a decade, I discovered what my family is actually like.  
The times I had been there as a kid, I didn't understand. I was only happy to be there, happy to see lao lao and lao ye, bored at the many family gatherings with slightly familiar faces, but happy to run around and be a child, away from my parents.  
This time though, I think - I come from a family of really meek people. Viciously, selfishly, meek people.
I think - I love my lao ye, but maybe I can only love him as a grandpa.  
I don't know who he is / was as a person - I don't always want to know.  
The more I learned this time, the less I wanted to know. But also those were things lao lao & mom told me, so I feel even more uncertain. I wish I could ask him myself.  
I don't know how I feel about my lao lao. I think I love her, but it might just be attachment. What's the difference? When does someone become awful enougn that you stop loving them? What if you never stop loving them? What if you miss loving them, miss not understanding that they were awful?  
I think - I'm ashamed of my family, and the things they've done, and the people they are.  
And even after I came home, I am feeling ashamed - now I have to know that's what I was made from. Something rotten.  
.  
maybe I could live with myself back when I was doing something stupid and useless, but good  
but now I'm not even doing something good  
how can I pay my own debt, let alone theirs?  
.  
I wish I had also brought back stories of brave things someone with my blood did 80 years ago, that I could see something in.  
I know that acquaintance probably has family issues too, but - man how I wish there was even a kernel of something good there.  
<br>
<br>
<!-- edit - haha reading this later I feel like when I'm feeling bad, I don't to write my feelings down as straightforward-ly because it's corny and stupid - but then instead the way I write things down sound much more corny and stupid later compared to if I had just journalled straightforward-ly like normal. rip.   -->
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
