---
layout: post
title: "maybe i never left"
categories: journal 
date: 2024-11-08 15:48:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  

I want to be known and I want to be entirely anonymous. I can't have both. I want to be understood, and I want to be blameless. This too, is impossible. Maybe that impulse runs beneath everything I feel - I want to be blameless. How christian. I want to hide my sins, even from myself, became at some age I guess I learned that they can never fade. I feel and I don't want to feel, I am terried at the idea of never feeling again, I am also terrified of the responsibility of feeling.  
I was never catholic, but sometimes I have such strong confessional urges. Deeply, I fear that if my friends knew all the ways I have wronged people in the last 27 years, they would never choose to trust me. Over the years, some of these fears have faded - I recognize now it mostly happens when I can view the person that did those things as so different to my current self as to no longer be my responsibility. Something I did when I was 8 years old and still feel badly about - how ridiculous would it be to confess to someone I met at 25. But I still feel this guilt much more strongly for things that I did more recently than elementary school, and in low moments it feels like I am made of nothing but the shame of this handful of un-correctable mistakes. Probably also because the older you get, the more intensely and unfixably you can wrong people.  
<br>
I think I never learned to see the good in people and things, first, before seeing the bad. I still don't really know how.  
This, and a lot else, comes from my mother who always says a cruel thing about someone first, before giving up a few kind words. 
When people write funeral posts for their loved ones and say, "They were the best parts of me" -- what happens when someone is the worst parts of you? All the parts that you hate? How do I love the person who gave me the most wretched pieces of themself and made me believe that's all a person can be? And then often I zoom out and think, how dramatic. It's not like you were abused. You were just raised by deep dysfunctional people that also came from deeply dysfunctional people, all of whom were traumatized by things harder than you've ever experienced. How can I take myself seriously. 
But then I think - somewhere in that line of dysfunctional people, someone taught a child that it feels good to hurt people. And so your mother took out all her hurts on you, and maybe maybe maybe I can admit that that is something bad enough to acknowledge.  
<br> 
I wish I could reach into the past and meet someone I came from, someone I could feel proud to be of. But I'll never know, and there are plenty of people who know even less. Why does it matter so much anyways, can't I just accept that I'm rotten, and I came from a rotten tree, and that just by drying out the rot in my generation that is maybe the best thing in my life I will ever manage to do? Maybe death, or just the ending of all of those things in me, will remove just a bit of it from the world. Maybe all the efforts I make as long as I live won't amount to much, but at least I won't leave behind a rotten child to continue fruiting rotten children of its own. I know all of this is dramatic. But when I spend time with her I can't help but feel the best thing I can do for anyone I love must be to remove myself from their life. How is it that year after year, our resemblance still feels so strong that any steps I tried to walk away from her must only have been the steps of an ant. How is it that one random middle aged woman who has done almost nothing interesting in her whole life, poisons me so badly? I know the toxin has been accumulating for generations, but I can't understand it. I have almost no idea of what Lao Lao's life was like, and no reliable way of finding out. I think about how no one was able to even think about Jiu Jiu until we were a car ride away from the mountain, and what a shoddy joke we did of sao mu.  
A bruised apple. A single dry ass wet wipe. His sister's foreign daughters who barely ever knew him, who shouldn't even have been there.  
And 2 siblings who only spoke ill the whole way there and back. I could frame it differently, but -- I'm sick of romanticizing meanness -- it cannot be that every Chinese person is mean the way people in my family are mean. Unless I'm the problem, which I certainly also am. I wish I wish I wish that things were different, and I feel so trapped in that longing these days that I don't know how to move forward. I feel so much less brave than the most timid of my friends. Is there something about this place that traps us with ghosts? Aren't there ghosts in Bei jing too? I wish the whole world had a different past than the one that happened.  
<br>
I took a picture, on that mountain, before I found out I wasn't supposed to. Maybe that's why I feel like I never left. Maybe that's why sometimes it feels like that was the last real thing that happened to me, 3 days after the year started, and like I am just waiting to become a ghost too. Maybe I never left and only think I did, and when I finally die I will see that I've been back there waiting beside sandy trees all along, and that all of the mistakes of my life were only a dream I dreamed while waiting to return.  