---
layout: post
title: "Alphasmart NEO entries"
categories: journal 
date: 2025-02-25 13:22:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
I sold my alphasmart NEO because I hadn't used it in a few years. These are the files that were still on it. 


FILE 1<br>
May 22, 2022 - TAG portfolio review<br>
questions - this is the style i like to work in, what to pursue? character design seems flatter, roles for feature seems to be only visdev, is there a pathway like that?<br> 
background - i sh<br>
<br>
FILE 2<br>
Porridge <br>
Red sugar<br>
brown sugar<br>
why is it not red?<br>
<br>
One part cold milk to One part cold water<br>
Oats<br>
Sugar<br>
<br>
it should be earth red <br>
coarse and soft,<br>
fire-relieving, cooling and sweet<br>
But here, pale, cold brown<br>
brown the color of empty dirt<br>
dirt producing the shape of things<br>
while the things themselves are elsewhere<br>
they want the world to be dirt<br>
dutifully producing<br>
they have consumed all the soil<br>
they gave nothing to the dust left behind<br>
<br>
But now we are things grown from the shape of things<br>
aching to touch the soil we have never seen.<br>
<br>
We try to keep our shapes filled, though we are not sure what should have been<br>
so that<br>
when we die, <br>
We can become earth that just might <br>
bear<br>
something<br>
<br>
FILE 3<br>
05/05/2022 Cynthia's Backyard<br>
My current feelings around my relationship with Avery feel like a balloon that is very very full, but you can't really pop it with a finger. It's all very solidly contained by the balloon material. <br>
He texted me again this morning, "is there any way that I can fix this?"<br>
I feel like our current emotional situation echoes the end of my relationship with Ben, except I'm on the other side of it. I remember how muddled my head was those years of college that my mental health was so bad. And I have often felt that Avery's confusion and inconsistency around his feelings towards me and everything in general is familiar to that. <br>
He doesn't really want to let me go, but also can't/doesn't want to have a committed relationship. And also cannot say if it's that he can't or doesn't want to. When we talk about what that would concretely mean, it gets confusing because it often sounds like he is not opposed to the actual things we talk about that would be different about so-called 'commitment'. But it has never stopped feeling like he is generally averse to it. <br>
I want to feel loved, and I want to feel wanted. With Avery, it most often is that I have know that I am loved, and know that I am wanted. And I know he sometimes feels the same way, that he does not feel wanted or loved by me in ways he'd like to. 
But by now some of those ways I sometimes feel a bit resentful to be expected from me. The recurring conversation about how on the phone I often am not engaged in conversations about math/software/sports. And I know I am not, but when we are not long distance and not talking on the phone, it is not like this. It is my fault, but also part of it is a difficulty I never wanted. And also I know he hates the word emotional labor, but what cynthia said the other day about when you are only confiding in the person you are dating, that can be a lot. There are lots of conversations where I feel like Avery is not engaged or interested in what I am talking about, and I just move on, because that's okay - because I have friends that I can talk to about things. But it's not okay that I have no interest in sports and cannot keep up a conversation about it. And he always brings up that he is almost always interested in talking about my niche tattoo stuff and art stuff. Which is true and so I feel badly that I cannot do the same. But it feels unfair because there are whole categories of things I can't talk to him about or that he seems generally uninterested in, anything gender related, family stuff sometimes, things that happen in my day with people he doesn't know. <br>
I got distracted from what I was thinking about because of venting these things.<br>
I have to admit that there has been a vision of what I thought this relationship could be, when someday he feels better more of the time. <br>
He would have more space to be there for me. I could talk to him when I'm feeling bad, and be pretty sure that it won't make me feel worse. I won't feel like he views whole categories of people, that I feel I belong to, with general antipathy. He'll be supportive about my gender things. He will use my pronouns all the time, and call me by any current name without unease between us. I won't feel like I want to be around him more than he wants to be around me. We will talk about the future, and what we each want to do, and things we want to do together, and it won't feel like I am asking something of him. He will say I love you to me. He will look at me the way I think I look at him, not a few times a year, but often enough that it's familiar. I will feel that he cares enough about the things that hurt me to change how he views them. I will feel that I'm not alone. He will not feel alone. He will either let me help with something or tell me he doesn't want that help. I won't feel like the help I've given or offered him out of a desire to help has been read as ulterior motives. He will more easily see that when I am stressed and do things out of inattention, it's without ill intent the same way he does when he does or doesn't do things out of stress. <br>
There's too many things I wish were different, and not enough things that make me happy. I feel strongly this time is the end of us dating for good, because this relationship no longer brings me happiness. I don't think that relationships or friendships should be viewed for their benefits, but I also want to be happy. I don't want to feel unwanted. I've realized I have felt unwanted, I have felt subtly and constantly rejected, and I have become so hyper aware & anxious of everything I say and do around him. It's been almost 4 years, and its been long enough that I now feel that right now I would be happier and better off not dating Avery than dating him.<br>
This is something I never want to say to him or anyone. I feel that maybe he's never understood many of the ways the way our relationship has been has made me feel. And I did not communicate them sooner because I didn't know how to make the separation of, these things make me feel bad and they are not your fault either, but they make me feel bad and that's the truth. <br>
I threw coins to ask about how I should go about this going forward, and I got:<br>
- present 37 jia ren (family)<br>
- future 31 - i forget but something about influence, and good relationships<br>
- I think maybe I had fallen into the feeling of dealing with family. That there are people to whom there should not be a limit to how you give to them. But even with family, I've come to realize that it also matters what they give to me. Is it pain as well as good, or is it mostly pain? <br>
- and I think between Avery and I it used to be an ok balance of pain and good, but over time the pain has poisoned the good. The same with my family I guess.<br>
- I don't know what will happen from here. I want to be friends but it's been so painful to be dating-but-not-partners, it feels like I need to really detach from this and him to be able to come back to it as friendship. And I still don't know if he understands me. I think I understand him, but I'm not sure either. <br>
- He has so far not granted me the space I asked for.  <br>
  
05/09/2022 60th st aptmt<br>
The conversation with avery yesterday went really badly. It sucks because I really don't think there's anything I can do right now. I hope that gina was actually still in philadelphia yesterday. I feel enormously guilty, I feel like I have abandoned him. And the thing is that in prioritizing my feelings I did. And megan was telling me that that's okay, and I'm not sure that it's okay, but it is the reality, so it is what it is. As I was walking home today, I was feeling extremely sad and resigned about us The thought went through my head - if blaming the way things happened the last few weeks on me not being consistent and on me changing my mind a lot makes it easier and is helpful for him, I'm okay with that. And then I thought, I really have let go of the idea of at some point having the non-platonic relationship with Avery that I had been hoping for. Because if I wanted to be with him in that way, I wouldn't ever be okay with that. Thinking that way still makes me want to bawl, but it also comes followed by the second thought - I'm okay with that because if I love him as a friend, I can want the best for him and not need him to give me anything. And it's much easier to step away when he's hurting me. I still just don't think he ever holds onto the awareness that our relationship made me feel bad, nor hold onto the understanding of why, beyond any given cyclical conversation where we talk extensively about it yet again. I don't think he currently understands that the way he feels right now, that i can't decide and he just cant deal with it and doesn't want it - that i've been feeling that way for probably almost 3 years. There are moments where I feel like he understands me, and then it always dissolves away and we repeat. And I feel like most of the time I am thinking from his perspective. I just want to be loved as much as I love. I just want someone to say I love you to me, and mean it like they are in love with me. And I feel sad that maybe he would want to feel that way towards me if he could. But he doesn't, and it's gone on long enough that I had to begun to resent that he doesn't but still wouldn't totally let me go, and I couldn't let go, and I felt so bad, and so I ended it, and now this is where we're at ! ! ! I hate it and he said yesterday that what's happening now is that 'I said I wouldn't care if not talking for a while meant he didn't want to be friends anymore', and I felt hurt and angry because staying what we were hurt me. And he said that like it's my fault, like I wanted any of this. And also that he said when I told him I wanted to talk in person because I wanted to make sure he is okay, he said 'you're not that person for me anymore, and that isn't something you've been able to do'. I know he wouldn't say something so cruel if he was not so upset, but it feels so unfair to say that, but also i guess like its anyone's right to say they dont want someone's help, but it felt like it was aimed in a way meant to hurt and it did. Like I failed, which I did, and that's why he doesnt want to talk or be friends anymore. Maybe it is, I think he probably resents me for not being able to give exactly what he needed as well, except that I feel that he needed a much wider range of things from me than I was allowed to need from him. I felt that when I brought up my needs, the conversation always went that he couldn't give those things, and when he brought up things, it went that I said I would try harder, and so he continued expecting those things from me. I want someone who'd rather try harder for me too. <br>
<br>
05/11/2022 60th st apartment<br>
After talking to Avery on the phone last night, I feel like I'm standing right at the edge of a horribly deep pit of guilt and I'm afraid to look at it because it's too much.<br>
I really misunderstood how bad things are for him right now, or on some level I knew he was having a hard time, but it has been a long time since I have encountered him having a really bad time that it wasn't what I was picturing he was going through. I feel that I have made a massive mistake, a deeply irreparable mistake.<br>
After last night's conversation I see that I totally abandoned him in the worst moment I could have done. I think when I mentally drew parallels between our current situation and the end of my relationship with Ben, I leaned on that understanding way too much to cope, and Avery and I are not the same person. When he said he was having a hard time and that he had a panic attack, I thought back to the summer after freshman year when I was having panic attacks - in retrospect, for me at the time it was clearly set off by Ben breaking up with me along with a whole lot of other stuff I couldn't cope with. And so I thought, well he's having a hard time but no matter when I've done this he will still have a hard time, and I have to do this for myself. But I've never been around during one of his panic attacks and he's never wanted to talk about it in detail to me, and so I think I still don't understand what they are like. But he kept saying in the call, something about feeling upset that I just wanted to "that's it, let's go our own ways", and him realizing that he had been relying on me a lot. I couldn't tell how he felt about it. He sounded upset about the former, and I couldn't at all figure out how he felt about the latter. I don't understand what he means by the former either, because that's not what I meant by my actions and have said so over and over and he seems to understand my motivatons, so I don't understand why he feels that way. He also seemed kind of bitter that I, in his words, basically was "able to go back to my old life from before the road trip". I wanted something else with him afterwards, but he couldn't/didn't want to. He sounded upset/resentful that I wasn't there for him these last few weeks. I feel horrible because I wish I was, and I wish I could have been. I think it is true that this was a case of, I was not okay, and was not in any place to be there so crucially for someone else that is super not okay, especially who was the reason for me not being ok. And I needed the space to be okay so that I could come back to him. But now the crisis came and went without me even realizing, and he resents me for not being there and not talking to him, and he doesn't want me there anymore. And I kind of feel hurt by that, because hasn't it been that way for so long - he has me in the way he needs me, but I don't have him in the way I need him. And even though this was awful timing and I hope that I would never have chosen to do this right now if I had known, if I hadn't been so hasty and talked to him in person then maybe I would have sensed that things were really bad with him and I would have waited till things were okay to break it off, or maybe I would have tried my best to just do it mentally without external actions - even though I deeply regret the timing of my actions, I still feel hurt that after only 2.5 weeks of not having me the way he needs me, he is so upset with me. And I know in the past there were lots of little things he felt bad about in our relationship too. But I have felt hurt by this relationship for over a year now; I remember very clearly a conversation in my old room at linden in maybe around December 2020 or Jan 2021, where I sobbed at the first time telling him about my insecurity about our relationship, that I felt he doesn't really see me the same way I see him, and the first time he assured me he felt committed about dating me. And it's just periodic repeats of that conversation ever since, except at some point he started answering that yeah, he doesn't want to be in the same kind of relationship with me that I do with him, and we should change things so that I feel less bad about it. And I would try, and he would never let me go, and the moment he resisted I would stop trying very hard either,  because I did and still do want very much to be with him. And now I finally try very hard to let go of him, and the timing was horrible, and now he does not want me anymore at all. And I really don't blame him, I've been in a similar headspace, and I resented Ben so much for the space he asked for. And it really hasn't been till now that I understood things from his perspective, even though we had long both put the breakup behind us and see each other as friends. That we at 18 year olds, and now we as 25 year olds are doing the same thing.<br>
<br>
I never in the past related to the way people talked about depression as if it were a separate entity from their loved ones before - 'depression takes people away from you' 'depression isolates you' - I always thought, isn't it the person struggling with depression still, who is doing things? And this time I finally see it, I see all these things that feel like they are happening to Avery even though they are things he himself is doing. He said something over text a few days ago about how he is realizing how he put his life on 'ultimate hard mode' and that 'moving to a city where he didn't know anyone was really silly'. It feels like so often it is impossible for him examine things at all. And I feel like no matter how I tried to get through to him about these things before, he could not hear it. I thought it was me, that if it was me saying these things he didn't want to listen, because he always thought I just wanted more of him or wanted him to move to my city. I felt  that my worry or concern for him was often interpreted as judgement, or a disguise of my own desires of him. And I felt hurt by this and I felt so hurt by the text he sent about I have not been able to help him. Like is that my job?? It's something I want to do! And it's his right to not want my help, but this felt like hurt and judgement coming from him. <br>
I don't know if he'll ever see how hurtful the things he says when he's like this is to his friends. Depression makes you so myopic that you can't see past your own thoughts, and I saw this with Chloe and she and Serena both saw this with Avery back in school, and I saw it back then too with him, but it hasn't been this way for so long that I forgot how much it hurts to be around. And I know Chloe had some clarity on the things she said to me later on, but I don't know if she could ever fully understand. And same with my own behavior towards Ben back then. And that Avery so disdains the way Chloe acted junior year, and does not seem to see that it is also the way he acts when he is not doing okay as well. And I have to not need that recognition from them, and maybe this is the thing I always assumed made people personify Depression so much - to make it easier to blame it on Depression and forgive your love.<br>
<br>
Right now it is very hard for me to distinguish between my mistakes and difficulties resulting from Avery's personal struggles. And I know that I will not hear any apology from him about this nor do I even know if it'd be right for me to ask one from him, and I have to not need that right now. I have apologized for being selfish, which I should not have done, because I chose myself over him and I never want to apologize for that again. I apologized for not being there these last few weeks, and I think that sorry was too little too late. I apologized for my hastiness to stop speaking a few weeks ago and how I dealt with it, and I feel sorry for it but I don't regret it. So now I don't know what to do, I just have my guilt over his pain to wallow in, and my guilt over feeling like I should have been there for him and he should not have had to ask Gina, and my guilt so much guilt, guilt that I have done so much wrong to someone I love at their lowest point. I feel that I can't confront that and still maintain my stability in feeling like I DESERVE TO LIVE, OR ANY AMOUNT OF KINDNESS OR HAPPINESS. I have held on to that stability for years now, but maybe only because nothing has happened to make my grip loosen. I don't know how to hold the truth of what happened between us and also still hold onto that stability.<br>
<br>
05/15/2022 My bedroom on 60th St<br>
Yesterday afternoon on the way back from the stone trust workshop, I got my period. This explains at least some part of my emotional turmoil the last few days. <br>
I read up on separation anxiety in dogs, and I realized that my instincts were correct around the more callous approach of 'leave him alone when i need to and he'll just have to get used to it'. It doesn't work, and would only serve to further traumatize them. The article recommended, and also emphasized the difficulty of, this approach: provide them the total security of your presence, and then get them used to your absence, minute by minute. So, step outside for 1-3 minutes at a time, but not long enough for them to become alarmed. Treat it as totally normal. And repeat until it can be longer. It was emphasized that in this period of time, you should not leave the dog alone ever. This is basically my situation right now anyways, so I think I will attempt it. <br>
I realized, I cannot change how the dog feels. I cannot change how I feel or how anyone else feels. The only thing I can do is acknowledge it, and slide my hands around the edges of it carefully, lovingingly, and maybe someday I'll be able to wrap my arms around its entirety. <br>
I used to think that the honest way to do things was always to confront feelings head on, and talk them down until it is solved. But I can't how anyone feels, not even myself. I can't make things be different no matter how much I wish that time could run backwards and that, somehow, we could have had different pasts and still have been shaped into the people we are now. <br>
Without the pain inflicted on us as children and adults, would it still have been possible to find ourselves where we are now? I feel that so much of my inner struggles comes from teaching myself how to be kind, unteaching many of the ways I learned the world to be. If someone else had taught me better in the first place, would there be pain that I could never understand? <br>
I woke up this morning thinking about the final gym class I took while at MIT. Avery and I registered for it together, it was titled meditation & fitness. I suggested it because he needed another gym class to graduate, and I don't remember why, but it was somewhat important that he completed it our senior fall. I remember doing this out of concern, and being really anxious that I was overstepping and overbearing. He never seemed to really process that I didn't need to be taking the class with him at the time though, as I had already filled my p.e. requirements as a sophomore I think. <br>
A few years later he suddenly approached me and thanked me for doing so. I think I felt embarrassed when he said so, I always felt embarrassed for caring too much, too early, but also happy that he felt the impact of being cared about, even if years down the line. <br>
But this morning I realized - I'm not sure this is something I would do for someone now. I'm not sure this is something I would do for Avery now. When I thought about it, it hurt my chest - it felt like the only good thing I learned from my mother, how to give and give and care and love, I have lost somewhere along the way. Or perhaps thrown away from me. <br>
<br>
When I think of my actions then, I feel ashamed - like I selfishly wanted to perform martyrish actions for other. But I also remember the purity of those desires to help people, like I had care and effort to give and people around me who clearly needed it, and that it was obvious what I should do. <br>
As a kid, like the entire time until maybe early high school, I remember desperately loving everyone around me, even the people I disliked. I remember being so happy that everything was the way it was, that everyone was the way they were. <br>
I haven't remembered to feel that way in a long time, but there were some moments last year when I felt stuck and sad and alone where I felt that strange joy again - this time, at the thought that people are happy out there. I felt peace that I was in anguish and that my life was not good at the moment, because there are people in the world that are happy and have beautiful lives. It was sort of a moment of 'I do not have to be the main character, so it is okay that I hurt'. I'm not sure this really makes sense either. <br>
I want to think more about all these things later, but I have to pickup a small bookshelf now, so hopefully I remember to come back to it.  <br>
<br>
05/16/2022 My bedroom on 60th St<br>
While driving yesterday, I was thinking about the type of love I wrote about previously. And I remembered talking about dating awhile back with a friend (was it avery? megan?), and it feeling very true to me that, if I was able to understand someone deeply enough, I really could fall in love with anyone. I don't think anyone is unloveable, but also even more that that, I don't think anyone in the world is unloveable by me. <br>
But maybe as we accumulate and as the lives we live stretch on in time, the moments in which connection is possible become fewer. Maybe that's why it was so easy for me as a child, to feel deeply in love with every single person around me - kids are (for the most part) very direct people, and when you are a kid, adults project a very direct interface. And I rememmber it being very obvious when adults were lying or when something was off, though not yet being able to know what was necessarily going on.<br>
<br>
05/17/2022 My bedroom, 60th st<br>
When there's a thing that you badly want, that is also very much possible - how do you stop hoping for it?<br>
<br>
FILE 4-10<br>
empty<br>
<br>
<br>
