---
layout: post
title: "books 2025"
categories: lists books
date: 2025-09-28 13:52:00
---
<a href="/blog-posts">all blog posts< </a>  
<br>
Trying...to read....my phone is evil..... my brain feels like it works worse than it used to... at my pre-op appointment I was having so much trouble understanding and remembering all the info she was giving me. it made me remember when i was younger and frustrated at how slow most people are. now i'm the slow one...  
  
*updated 9/28/25*  
*Books I have read so far in 2025:*  
- The Dispossessed  
*I finished this during ECCC and C2E2. I remember feeling so wistful for a world like Anarres. Specifically the way the housing works, and the freedom of movement (kinda). It's the first book I've read that dreams a future like something I want.*  
- The Lathe of Heaven  
*weird fucking book. I think I miss a huge part of what it was saying in a meta-way. feels like daoist stuff but I'm out of tune with that right now. I think I read this in July?*  

*Books I'm currently reading:*  
- Health Communism  
*Just finished the first chapter on 'surplus'. The framework it is introducing to me is so useful for my brain. So freaking dense tho idk how long it's going to take me to finish it*  
- Mounted  
*Just finished the chapter on Little House on the Prairie. The writing is so wistful. It's interesting to read a book and hear it in a friend's voice in my head. I like the phrase about stealing yourself.*  
- A Swim in a Pond in the Rain  
*Just finished the second short story discussion. I like this a lot. It makes me feel like maybe I could write a story one day.*  
  
*Books I'd like to Start:*  
- ? - *There aren't any on my list right now which feels weird*  

  
*Books I started and didn't finish and don't intend to:*  
- There are Rivers in the Sky - *I'm not sure if I'm going to finish this. The cover is beautiful, and the writing is nice, but the first short story left a weird feeling in my mind.*  
  